=From [http://www.devoxx.com/display/DV09/Google+App+Engine+for+Java+-+a+real+live+voyage+to+The+Cloud our Devoxx Talk]: gathered talk-related pictures, tweets, and blog posts=

|| Swag and Swap ||
|| http://blog.xebia.fr/wp-content/uploads/2009/11/gae_speakers.jpg ||

|| The audience is eying the beer swag to be given away. ||
|| http://lh3.ggpht.com/_ZrYb6GjXXeM/SwLVKykVrUI/AAAAAAAAJKk/PvAFrhOUV6o/s720/DSC_4739.jpg ||

|| Sam is cracking himself up ||
|| http://lh3.ggpht.com/_ZrYb6GjXXeM/SwLVL1zBzKI/AAAAAAAAJK0/CsvfQsh-oyc/s720/DSC_4665.jpg ||


==[http://michael-peeters.blogspot.com/2009/11/devoxx-2009-google-application-engine.html Concise Summary of Our Talk]==


==Tweets from right after the talk==

Kengkee: attended very well presented talk on GAE during #devoxx, very cool presenting style  

jamesjefferies: Jsf and app engine don't seem to mix very well, no application or session state for managed beans! #devoxx must see if grails works on it

oliverdauben: GAE's limitations (30sec timeout, no threaded code): okay for small apps, more complex ones will most certainly run on EC2. #devoxx

rmat0n: #Devoxx Begin GAE with #SpringMVC, #GWT and #JSF2 too tricky...

oliverdauben: attending the google appengine talk for 150 minutes now (30 more to go). way too much spring/jsp, next to nothing new on appengine. #devoxx

rmat0n: #Devoxx #jsf2 really hard to plug on GAE... but possible

rmat0n: #Devoxx #GWT, #JSF2 and #SpringMVC applications on #GAE (same shop, share service layer) Good session

jamesjefferies: App engine stuff interesting, but suspect you'd be better off with the control ec2 gives you. Missed the ec2 talk due to clash #devoxx

fisheke: GAE itself does still look niceish. But it seems the only really unique feature is the free&automatic cloud-ing. #devoxx

fisheke: GAE talk is definitely too much Spring and not enough GAE. #devoxx

dakawa: Google app. Talk at devoxx. YAWNNNNNNNNN

fverbist: #devoxx away from boring #gae go #android !

sarbogast: GAE presentation is kind of boring. And it doesn't really convince me that GAE is the way to go. Looks kind of limited. #devoxx

!GuyRenard: Best swag from last year at google app engine session at #devoxx is the explorer string, see at http://swagswap.appspot.com

jamesjefferies: At #devoxx waiting for the google app engine morning to start. I have high hopes for this, so don't let me down.

gsudharsan: At the 'Google App Engine for Java' talk, Start is interesting

!GuyRenard: Get beer for good questions at the google app engine session at #devoxx, cool !

!GuyRenard: We should see a less hello-worldish application being programmed during the swagswag session with google app engine

shardpso: Google app engine looks promising..

guissalou: @vtc_paris #valtechdays présentation gae. Beaucoup de monde dans là salle. Présentation agréable

(translation: GAE presentation. Many people in this room. Nice presentation)

straun: @sarbogast you have to design your way round the limitations with GAE

drorbr: GAE !SwagSwap session is really cool (Devoxx)

==Blog Posts==

[http://jwyseur.blogspot.com/2009/11/devoxx-day-two.html Jeroen Wyseur]

Seems very nice to get a small/personal app up in there however because of the restrictions placed (which seem fair to me), you will run in to unexpected problems here and there. They demonstrated a SpringMVC, JSF2 and GWT user interface on top of a common spring bean service layer using a JDO DAO layer. I think the presented application is interesting as a starting point since they encountered and fixed a number of gotchas. It looks like of the three, SpringMVC gave the least problems.

[http://guycrets.blogspot.com/2009/10/devoxx-09-great-talks.html Guy Crets:]

University Day 2 - Tuesday Nov 16
Google App Engine for Java - a real live voyage to The Cloud
Develop along with the speakers your first (or next) application on the Google App Engine. No sales pitch, as the speakers are - Sam Brodkin and Scott Stevenson - are independent(s).

[http://aiids.wordpress.com/2009/11/17/devoxx-09/ Stijn Leenknegt]: ([http://translate.google.com/#nl|en|Bij%20google%20app%20engine%20%28GAE%29%20toonden%20ze%20drie%20implementaties%20over%20een%20applicatie%20SwagSwap%3F.%20E%C3%A9ntje%20met%20Spring%203%2C%20%C3%A9%C3%A9ntje%20met%20JSF%20en%20%C3%A9%C3%A9ntje%20met%20GWT%20%28Google%20Web%20Toolkit%29.%20GAE%20is%20een%20cloud%20computing%20service%20van%20Google.%20Je%20mag%20gebruik%20maken%20van%20hun%20servers%20voor%20je%20applicatie%20te%20draaien.%20Er%20zijn%20wel%20limieten%20qua%20CPU%20tijd%2C%20traffic%2C%20%E2%80%A6%20maar%20het%20werkt%20goed.%20Je%20kan%20met%20GAE%20meerdere%20versies%20beheren%20van%20je%20applicatie%20en%20publiceren.%20Als%20er%20een%20versie%20niet%20meer%20werkt%2C%20kan%20je%20de%20vorige%20versie%20terug%20activeren%20bijvoorbeeld.%20Het%20was%20een%20middelzware%20conferentie%20omdat%20de%20twee%20heren%20constant%20elkaar%20%E2%80%9Cplaagden%E2%80%9D%20over%20hun%20favoriete%20implementatie.%20De%20ene%20was%20voor%20Spring%20en%20GWT%20en%20de%20andere%20voor%20JSF.%20De%20eindconclusie%20was%20dat%20JSF2%20nog%20een%20beetje%20buggy%20was%20en%20veel%20tijd%20nodig%20had%20voor%20de%20implementatie%20%28maanden%20programmeren%29.%20Spring%203%20deed%20er%20drie%20weken%20over%20en%20GWT%2C%20dat%20zwaar%20gebruik%20maakt%20van%20AJAX%2C%20maar%20drie%20dagen. English translation])

Bij google app engine (GAE) toonden ze drie implementaties over een applicatie SwagSwap. Eéntje met Spring 3, ééntje met JSF en ééntje met GWT (Google Web Toolkit). GAE is een cloud computing service van Google. Je mag gebruik maken van hun servers voor je applicatie te draaien. Er zijn wel limieten qua CPU tijd, traffic, … maar het werkt goed. Je kan met GAE meerdere versies beheren van je applicatie en publiceren. Als er een versie niet meer werkt, kan je de vorige versie terug activeren bijvoorbeeld. Het was een middelzware conferentie omdat de twee heren constant elkaar “plaagden” over hun favoriete implementatie. De ene was voor Spring en GWT en de andere voor JSF. De eindconclusie was dat JSF2 nog een beetje buggy was en veel tijd nodig had voor de implementatie (maanden programmeren). Spring 3 deed er drie weken over en GWT, dat zwaar gebruik maakt van AJAX, maar drie dagen.



[http://www.zdnet.be/news/110196/google-app-engine-for-java/  Dries Van Damme]: (http://translate.google.com/#nl|en|Sam%20Brodkin%20en%20Scott%20Stevenson%2C%20een%20Amerikaanse%20en%20een%20Schotse%20freelancer%20die%20beiden%20in%20de%20Benelux%20actief%20zijn%2C%20lieten%20Devoxx%20op%20een%20vrij%20ludieke%20manier%20kennismaken%20met%20GAE%2FJ.%20Ze%20demonstreerden%20de%20applicatie%20Swagswap%2C%20die%20ze%20speciaal%20voor%20Devoxx%20ontwikkelden. English translation])

Sam Brodkin en Scott Stevenson, een Amerikaanse en een Schotse freelancer die beiden in de Benelux actief zijn, lieten Devoxx op een vrij ludieke manier kennismaken met GAE/J. Ze demonstreerden de applicatie Swagswap, die ze speciaal voor Devoxx ontwikkelden.


[http://blog.xebia.fr/2009/11/19/devoxx-jour-2-google-app-engine/#more-3213 Romain Maton (in French)] [http://translate.google.com/translate?js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=http%3A%2F%2Fblog.xebia.fr%2F2009%2F11%2F19%2Fdevoxx-jour-2-google-app-engine%2F&sl=fr&tl=en English translation]


[http://www.touilleur-express.fr/2009/11/18/google-app-engine-a-devoxx-2009-journee-2/ Nicolas Touilleur (in French)] [http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=fr&tl=en&u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.touilleur-express.fr%2F2009%2F11%2F18%2Fgoogle-app-engine-a-devoxx-2009-journee-2%2F English translation]